This wiki page explains the gold-tiles game to players.

== The rules ==

Gold-tiles is a turn-based tile game for one or more players.
You can play solitaire, or play against the computer, or
play against other people on the same computer.  You can even
watch the computer play against itself.

=== Tiles and their attributes ===

The playing pieces are two-sided square or hexagonal *tiles* with colored *markings* on the side known as the *face*.  Tile markings 
denote the *values* of the tile's *attributes*.

In any particular game, all tiles have the same number of attributes.
The number of attributes and the number of a values for
each attribute are decided at the start of each game.
Tiles typically have two attributes, one denoted by a geometric 
shape and the other denoted by the color of that shape.  However, 
there can be up to five attributes, with all or some values 
denoted by letters or numbers.

Each attribute takes at least four values but not more than ten.
For instance, in a five-color game the color attribute might 
take the values _black_, _red_, _blue_, _green_, and _purple_.
In a four-shape game, the shape attribute might take the 
values _circle_, _square_, _triangle_, and _star_.

The tiles used in a particular game include at least one with every 
possible combination of attribute values.  Games may also 
include *clones*--tiles with identical markings (which 
therefore match in every attribute).  The number of clones
per combination is decided at the start of each game.

Two tiles are *compatible* if exactly one of their attributes 
matches (has the same value).  If none of their attributes 
match, then the tiles are not compatible.  Nor are they 
compatible if two or more of their attributes match.
(Consequently, clones are never compatible.)

For instance, a tile having red markings is compatible 
with any tile having black markings, provided their markings 
are otherwise identical.  A tile marked with a square
is compatible with any tile marked with a circle, provided 
their markings are otherwise identical.  And so on.

A fraction of the tiles used in a particular game may be
*bonus* tiles.  Bonus tiles are distinguished from normal
tiles by their golden background color.  Bonuses affects
scoring, but have no effect on whether two tiles are 
compatible or not.  

=== Locations for tiles ===

Each player controls one or more *hands*.  Each hand contains 
tiles belonging to that player.  A hand becomes *playable* 
during its turn.  Only one hand is playable at a time.

All hands share a board and a stock bag.
There is also a swap area, used to perform special moves 
called swaps.  A hand can 
access these locations only while the hand is playable.

==== Hands ====

Hands are limited in the number of tiles they can hold.
The limit is decided at the start of each game.

The actual number of tiles in each hand is visible to all hands,
but the markings on the tiles in a particular hand are visible 
only to that hand and only while the hand is active.  Hands 
generally cannot see the markings on tiles held by other hands.

==== Board ====

The *board* is a two-dimensional grid of *cells*.

The cells are typically arranged in a square grid with
two *scoring directions*:  horizontal and vertical.
Alternatively, a hexagonal grid with three scoring 
directions may be used.  Or a square grid with four 
scoring directions:  horizontal, vertical and two diagonals.
The number of scoring directions is decided at the start 
of each game.

Each cell is *adjacent* to two neighboring cells along each 
scoring direction.  For instance, on a hexagonal grid
each cell is adjacent to six neighboring cells.

Cells reached by moving in a single scoring direction 
from a particular cell form a *rank*.  For example,
on a square grid with two scoring directions, each row
and column forms a rank.

The board has an *origin* (starting cell), where the first
tile must be placed.  The board has no edges or other 
features.  It grows as needed in every direction.

Each cell starts out empty.  An *empty* cell becomes 
*full* when a hand *places* a tile face-up on the cell.
Once filled, a cell remains full until the end of the game.
Once placed on a cell, a tile remains there until the end 
of the game.

==== Stock bag ====

The *stock bag* contains all the unplayed tiles which don't 
belong to any hand.  Hands acquire tiles by *drawing*
them blindly from the stock bag -- without looking at 
the tiles' markings.

==== The swap area ====

A hand may return tiles to the stock bag on its
turn.  To avoid drawing back any returned tiles, the hand
temporarily places the returning tiles in a private *swap area* 
while drawing replacements.

=== Setup ===

At the start of the game, all cells on the board are
empty and all tiles reside in the stock bag.

Each hand blindly draws tiles from the stock bag until
it is full, then bids for the first turn by
announcing how many tiles it has which are mutually
compatible.

The hand with the largest set of mutually-compatible
tiles takes the first turn.  On that turn it must play
the number of tiles it bid.

=== Taking turns ===

A hand's *turn* consists of making a *move* and then
blindly drawing replacement tiles from the stock bag until
either the hand is full or the stock bag is empty.

There are four legal moves:
 * The hand may *play* one or more of its tiles to the board, filling empty cells in order to earn points.
 * The hand may *swap* -- return one or more of its tiles to the stock bag by way of the swap area.
 * The hand may *pass* -- do nothing.
   In this case, it does not draw any replacement tiles.
 * The and may *resign* and drop out of the game.
   In this case, its tiles return to the stock bag
   and it does not draw any replacements.

At the end of a hand's turn, if the hand has played all its
tiles and is unable to draw any replacements (because the 
stock bag is empty) then it *goes out*, and the 
game is over.  Otherwise, the *next hand* (the one to its 
left) get the next turn.

In *challenge* games, each hand gets a limited amount of time 
in which to make all its moves.  If a hand uses up its 
allotted time, it is forced to resign.
 
==== Playing restrictions ====

Every tile played to the board must fill an empty cell.

Except for the origin (filled on the first turn), each 
cell which is filled must have at least one neighbor which 
is already full.  In other words, all full cells on
the board must be connected.

The tiles placed in a single play must lie in a single rank, 
with no empty cells intervening.

If two or more tiles are placed in single rank without any 
intervening empty cells, they must all be mutually compatible.
(Consequently, tiles in adjacent cells have to be compatible.)

==== Swapping restrictions ====

The number of tiles returned during a swap must not exceed
the number of tiles in the swap bag.

=== Game over ===

A game ends normally when the stock bag is empty and one hand has gone out.

Alternatively, a game may end because all hands but one
have resigned.

=== Scoring ===

TBD

== Graphical interface ==

TBD